feat(columns): adding columns renderers.HVUIKIT-6288 (#2639)
lumada-design/hv-uikit-react: packages/lab/src/Table/stories/TableColumnRenderers.stories.mdx

- `switchProps: HvBaseSwitchProps`: extra props passed to switch, these values correspond to the `HvBaseSwitch` props.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={SwitchColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Tag column renderer

This functions renders a column with a tag component embedded that follows the state of a `json` value.
To change the value color and styles of the tag the data in the table must be changed.
The function receives 3 key values that correspond to properties present in the table cell value or in the whole row.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `valueDataKey: String`: The property to use as text for the tag.
- `colorDataKey: String`: The property to use as color for the tag this property.
- `textColorDataKey: String`: The property to use as color for the text of the tag.
- `fromRowData: Boolean`: if `true` it will extract the `valueDataKey` `colorDataKey` `textColorDataKey` from the row data, if `false` it will extract the aforementioned properties from the cell value.

> 

Reviewer: Forgot to add the `tagProps`.

import { Meta, Story, Preview } from "@storybook/addon-docs";

import LinkTo from "@storybook/addon-links/react";

import { Usage } from "storybook-root/blocks/Usage";

import { HvTable } from "../..";

import { 
  AllColumnRenderers, 
  TextColumnRenderer, 
  NumberColumnRenderer, 
  DateColumnRenderer,
  ExpandColumnRenderer,
  SwitchColumnRenderer,
  TagColumnRenderer,
  ProgressColumnRenderer,
  DropdownColumnRenderer,
} from "./TableColumnRenderers.stories.js";

<Meta title="Lab/Table Column Renderers" />

# Table column renderers

> The UI Kit library provides a collection of functions that work as **renderers** that ease the generation of various common column configurations.

Reviewer 2: I would add the following sentence here. 

They add a set of out of the box features, not meant to be 100% feature complete, but instead, ease the majority of use-cases we have been encountering. If you need any customization or extension to these rendeders, please feel free to copy and customize them.

> # Table column renderers
> 
> The UI Kit library provides a collection of functions that work as **renderers** that ease the generation of various common column configurations.
> 
> ## `hv*Column` functions
> 
> The `hv*Column` renderers are a set of functions that receive a series of parameters and outputs a `json` with the configuration required to achieve the desired look in that column
> 
> you can use the provided renderers by importing them directly from the lab like this: 
> 
> <Usage>{'import { hvTextColumn } from "@hitachivantara/uikit-react-lab";'}</Usage>
> 
> The UI Kit encourages the using of these renderers because: 
> 
> - Ensures data fallbacks in case of missing values.
> - Includes an overflow tooltip in case of long values.
> - Handles embedded component cases.

Reviewer: I think this can be simplified.

```suggestion
# Table column renderers

The UI Kit library provides a collection of utility functions that, together with the <LinkTo kind="Lab/Table Hooks" story="Main" className="sbdocs-a">Table Hooks</LinkTo>, ease the setup of common column configurations, including the render function, alignment, missing data fallbacks and cell overflow.

They can be imported like this:
<Usage>{'import { hvTextColumn } from "@hitachivantara/uikit-react-lab";'}</Usage>
```

The following renderers are available:

- `hvTextColumn`: Renders a string and include a overflow tooltip.
- `hvNumberColumn`: Renders a number aligning it correctly and include a overflow tooltip.
- `hvDateColumn`: Receives a date and formats it.
- `hvExpandColumn`: Creates a column that include an expand button.
- `hvTagColumn`: Creates a column rendering a tag component inside the cell.

> - `hvSwitchColumn`: A column that include a switch to toggle between two values.

Reviewer 2: If all sentences start with a verb, please add one here as well

> - `hvDropdownColumn`: A column that include a dropdown select between various values.

Reviewer 2: If all sentences start with a verb, please add one here as well

> - `hvTextColumn`: Renders a string and include a overflow tooltip.
> - `hvNumberColumn`: Renders a number aligning it correctly and include a overflow tooltip.
> - `hvDateColumn`: Receives a date and formats it.
> - `hvExpandColumn`: Creates a column that include an expand button.
> - `hvTagColumn`: Creates a column rendering a tag component inside the cell.
> - `hvSwitchColumn`: A column that include a switch to toggle between two values.
> - `hvDropdownColumn`: A column that include a dropdown select between various values.
> - `hvProgressColumn`: Shows a bar in a column to visualize the compare between the actual value and max value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `hvTextColumn`: Renders a string and include an overflow tooltip.
- `hvNumberColumn`: Renders a number aligning it correctly and include an overflow tooltip.
- `hvDateColumn`: Receives a date and formats it.
- `hvExpandColumn`: Creates a column that include an expand button.
- `hvTagColumn`: Creates a column rendering a tag component inside the cell.
- `hvSwitchColumn`: A column that include a switch to toggle between two values.
- `hvDropdownColumn`: A column that include a dropdown select between various values.
- `hvProgressColumn`: Shows a bar in a column to visualize the compare between the actual value and max value.
```

## All renderers table

Complete sample table that uses most of the provided renderers.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={AllColumnRenderers} />
</Preview>

## Text column renderer

> This functions render text in the table.

Reviewer 2: Typo, this function **renders**

The column generated will be *left* aligned, the text truncated with a tooltip if too long or if missing it will be replaced with a long dash.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={TextColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Number column renderer

This functions render numeric values in the table.
The column generated will be *right* aligned and in case the value is missing it will be substituted by a 0.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={NumberColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Date column renderer

This functions renders format string values as a date.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned and in case the value is missing it will be substituted by a 0.

Reviewer: I think this is bad copy-paste.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `format: String`: the format used to format the value the default value is `ISO8601`.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={DateColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Expand column renderer

> This functions in conjunction with the `useHvRowExpand` hook renders a column with a button to open additional content in the table.

Reviewer: We need to explain that this is to be used when we need to customise the default expand button created by `useHvRowExpand` (that is always in the first column, only supports plain text, etc.) and that it implies the use of `disableCreateExpandButton: true`.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned and have the same properties as the `hvTextColumn` column.

Reviewer: Right aligned?

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `expandRowButtonAriaLabel: String`: The aria label for the button when the expander is closed.
- `collapseRowButtonAriaLabel: String`: The aria label for the button when the expander is open.
- `getCanRowExpand: (row: HvRowInstance) => boolean`: The function executed to determine whether the expander button is able to be opened.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={ExpandColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Switch column renderer

This functions renders a column with a switch component embedded that follows the state of a `boolean` value.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned.

Reviewer: Is it?

To change the value of the switch the data in the table must be changed.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `switchLabel: String`: The aria label for the switch.
- `falseLabel: String`: The label for the left side of the switch.
- `trueLabel: String`: The label for the right side of the switch.
- `switchProps: HvBaseSwitchProps`: extra props passed to switch, these values correspond to the `HvBaseSwitch` props.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={SwitchColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Tag column renderer

This functions renders a column with a tag component embedded that follows the state of a `json` value.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned.

Reviewer: Again to the right. :-P

To change the value color and styles of the tag the data in the table must be changed.
The function receives 3 key values that correspond to properties present in the table cell value.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `valueDataKey: String`: The aria label for the switch.
- `colorDataKey: String`: The label for the left side of the switch.
- `textColorDataKey: String`: The label for the right side of the switch.

> - `fromRowData: Boolean`: if `false` uses the raw value of the table coming from the data.

Reviewer: I think we need a parameter to control the tag properties, and that it should default to semantic, instead of categorical.

> - `fromRowData: Boolean`: if `false` uses the raw value of the table coming from the data.

Reviewer: This is completely unclear, "if `false` uses the raw value of the table coming from the data".

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={TagColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Progress column renderer

This functions renders a column with a progress bar component embedded.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned.

Reviewer: ...

The function receives a pair of callbacks to specify the status of the bar.

parameters:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The column configuration to modify.
- `getPartial: (row: HvRowInstance) => number`: a function that returns the current value of the bar.
- `getTotal: (row: HvRowInstance) => number`: a function that returns the current max value of the bar.
- `color: "primary" | "secondary"`: which color to use for the bar.

output:
- `col: HvTableColumnConfig`: The modified column configuration with the parameters required to render the text.

<Preview withToolbar>
  <Story inline story={ProgressColumnRenderer} />
</Preview>

## Dropdown column renderer

This functions renders a column with a progress bar component embedded.

> The column generated will be *right* aligned.

Reviewer: Right...
